Getting Used to R, Rstudio, Rmd…and more
================
NAME
8/21/2020

Before doing this, review the **Welcome** and **Git** lecture set slides
from <https://sites.google.com/view/biostats/bioenv-2100/welcome> and
the **1\_intro\_data\_lecture.R** script in the lecture\_files folder of
the [CUNY-BioStats github
repository](https://github.com/jsgosnell/CUNY-BioStats).

## Getting your first repository

At this point I’m assuming you received the invitation to view the
assignment on github classroom and accepted it. You now have a private
repository of these files. In addition to working on R, we’ll have you
connect your first project on Rstudio to this repository and work on
some basic git skills.

First, open RStudio (on your desktop or cloudserver). Select file, new
project, Version control. On the next screen select git. Next you’ll
need to enter the url for your repository. Navigate to the web home of
your github repository and for the green **Code** button. Click it, then
copy the web url (or click the copy icon). Input that into the Rstudio
**Repository URL** space. Then name the project (maybe Assignment 1?).
The **Create project…** field can be left blank to just save all
projects into the main directory. Alternatively you can click **Browse**
and make an Assignments folder if you want. Whatever you choose, the
project will be saved in new folder in that location using the name you
chose.

First, amend the file by replacing the **NAME** spot in the header (top
of the file between the — markers) with your name. Now lets make our
first commit. If you look in the upper right windoes, you should see a
*Git* tab. Select it. Notice nothing is there. Save the file (using the
**Disk** icon or file save).  
Two things will happen. A file will appear in the Git tab, and it may be
covered (immediately) by a preview of this file. You should see your
name in the preview\!

Go back to the git tab, click the checkbox next to the files, and select
**Commit**. You’ll need to enter a description. Put “My first commit\!”
and press Commit.

Now you’ve saved a snapshot of the file to your local Rstudio instance
(on your own machine or server). If you go the **Git** tab and select
**History** you can select the commit, select any file you made, and
actually see the changes. We’ll only focus on the .Rmd files. That’s the
one you are writing. The others are made automatically and produce the
html document you see when you preview the file.

Now you need to push these changes to the cloud so I can see (and grade)
them. From the **Git** tab, select **Push**. A window should appear.
When it’s done (white text shows) go to your github repository. You
should see notes from your commit\! Congratulations\!

As you work, use commits to save snapshots of your work in a version
control manner, and pushes to share them with me. If you get stuck, you
can also push your file up so I can see it and help you fix it (much
better than “My code isn’t working). Then you can actually see”how" I
fixed it. The code will also be useful for assessments.

ADD HERE IF YOU CAN @TEACHER IN COMMIT FOR HELP\!

Now let’s start working in R.

## R subtleties and functions

1.  Let x be defined by

<!-- end list -->

``` r
 x <- 1:10
```

Try executing this chunk (in R studio, not the webview) by clicking the
*Run* button within the chunk or by placing your cursor inside it and
pressing *Ctrl+Shift+Enter*.

This will run the code in the Console. When you save the notebook, an
HTML file containing the code and the most recent output will be saved
alongside it (click the *Preview* button or press *Ctrl+Shift+K* to
preview the HTML file).

The preview shows you a rendered HTML copy of the contents of the
editor. Consequently, unlike *Knit*, *Preview* does not run any R code
chunks. Instead, the output of the chunk when it was last run in the
editor is displayed.

Determine what the “:” does\! Then try to guess the output of these
commands

  - length(x)
  - max(x)
  - x\[x \< 5\]
  - x^2
  - x\[ x \< 8 & x \> 2\]

INSERT AN R CHUNK HERE AND RUN EACH OF THESE COMMANDS? Add a new chunk
by clicking the *Insert Chunk* button on the toolbar or by pressing
*Ctrl+Alt+I*.
